---
title: Mixed Media NFTs
---

![An illustration of a cat linked to multiple other media
types](../../../../assets/mr_01.png)

With last-gen NFT technology, buying a music video only gets you the music
video. If the artist decides to drop an audio-only version of the song later,
all they can do is make a new airdrop.

Apply this to enough NFTs and a user's wallet turns into a disjointed and
contextually-disconnected mess of airdropped NFTs that have trouble working
together, evolving together, and having utility, especially as they individually
get sent out into different wallets and scatter further.

With RMRK's Multi-Asset NFTs, one can have a single NFT be multiple forms of
media, or even multiple versions of the same type of media. Here are some
examples:

### eBook

An eBook NFT can have one asset that is a PDF file, and one that is an audio
file. It can also have an additional one for showing in catalogs, wallets,
players - a visual cover.

Once the NFT is loaded into Audible, it just plays - the player knows what media
file it needs. If it is loaded into Kindle, the reader knows it's expecting a
PDF, so it pull that from this NFT.

If a new version of the audiobook comes out, it is easy to replace the audio
asset in a decentralized way rather than make a new airdrop. Same for the PDF
version.

### Music Video / Audio

A musician can publish a song, and later reward his buyers with a music video of
it. Maybe the music video even features all the original buyers' avatars in some
way, and is then uploaded as an extra asset to each of the audio-only versions,
adding more utility and value to them. The song NFT is now both a music video
and an audio-only version, and the NFT owners can switch between the version at
will.

### Painting / Making Of

Some artists enjoy creating making-of videos of their work. It is not uncommon
to see them added alongside NFT paintings, but usually as a separate airdrop or
just a video on Youtube. With Multi-Asset NFTs, this too is trivial to add to
the actual NFT of the painting. Some artists even add additional extras - like
music tracks.

[Example](https://singular.app/collectibles/13353782-8ac9852f42a86a395d-8GDSY-SATOMI_15_RARE_EDITION-00000015).

![EJ's art](../../../../assets/ej.png)

### Alternative Main Media

Some NFTs simply have different representations - paintings can have homages,
songs can have remixes, etc.

One such example is the Kanaria project. For example, the [Super Founder Bird
01](https://singular.app/collectibles/8949162-e0b9bdcc456a36497a-KANBIRD-KANS-00000001)
has three assets, a composable NFT, a stylized illustration, and a video of its
real-world statue:

![Super Founder 1](../../../../assets/sf1.png)

### Cross-game skin files

This is explained in detail on [this page](/explanations/usecases/cross_game_skins).
